# **Location, Planning and Zoning By-Laws**

For the construction of DKAL to move ahead a suitable location will be needed to
accommodate the Hydroponic/Aquaponic and Energy System divisions of the
business. The property will have to be an on an estimated 40-acre plot of land
that with the proper landscape to build the ponds to hold all the fish species.
The Recreation and Cafeteria buildings will be constructed on this same land
away from the farms. Thunder Bay has official Zoning By-Laws which Dkal will
have to abide by, which will be discussed in details later on in this document.
Building permits will also be needed before construction begins.

# **Location**

Choosing the right location will need to be discussed prior to applying for any
official documents. The city offers an interactive zoning map which can be found
at
<http://thunderbay.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=fe1c1cbffb7d43f482d006579a53c6a4>.
Shown in the image below is all the districts in the Thunder Bay region.

<p><a href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:ThunderBayWardMap.svg#/media/File:ThunderBayWardMap.svg"><img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d3/ThunderBayWardMap.svg/1200px-ThunderBayWardMap.svg.png" alt="ThunderBayWardMap.svg"></a><br>By <a href="//commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:Vidioman" title="User:Vidioman">Vidioman</a> - Trace of a satellite image from Google maps; City of Thunder Bay Ward Map, Public Domain, <a href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=2913280">Link</a></p>


# **Planning**

According to official documents from the City of Thunder Bay the Planning
Services Division develops and maintain the Official Plan and Zoning By-Laws.
The Official Plan is the Cityâ€™s main land use policy document. It describes what
kind of community they want to become in the future. It sets goals, objectives,
and policies which guide land use planning decisions. The Zoning By-law aims to
implement these goals and objectives on a day-to-day basis.

Planning Services reviews development proposals, making sure new developments
comply with the Zoning By-law. All properties within the City must comply.
Before purchasing a property or applying for a building permit, Planning
Services can help you determine if your proposal complies with zoning
regulations and if a planning application is necessary.


# **By-Laws**

For Dkal to deal with all the By-Laws, consulting with Planning Service Staff
will be required. According to the City of Thunder Bay the Zoning By-law sets
strict rules about what you can and cannot do with land. On the other hand, the
Official Plan provides somewhat flexible guidance. There are only a few strict
policies in the Official Plan. Mostly, it describes Thunder Bays vision for the
city and the ways they might reach this vision. The Zoning By-law is one of many
tools used to implement this vision.

The Zoning By-law divides the City into zones. Each zone has a list of permitted
uses and rules about how properties under that zone may develop. For example, in
the "R2" - Residential Zone Two you may build a duplex, but you may not build an
office. There are other rules regarding lot size, setbacks, and parking which
must also be followed.



# **References**

<https://www.thunderbay.ca/en/business/planning-applications.aspx>

<https://www.thunderbay.ca/en/business/zoning.aspx?_mid_=1006>

<http://thunderbay.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=fe1c1cbffb7d43f482d006579a53c6a4>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thunder_Bay_District>
